---
title: "The Last While"
date: 2017-11-23T17:54:50-05:00
draft: false
---

MIT has been fun for the last while. The most surprising class has definitely been 17.811 Game Theory and Political Science. It takes both a mathematical and political approach to Game Theory and is a combined graduate and undergraduate class with about 14 students. There's one two hour lecture a week in a cozy classroom with the professor that interjects with snippets from their research. I definitely think it is my favorite HASS (Humanities and Social Sciences) class I've taken at MIT so far. Lots of outcomes in the world of politics and world events have been made much clearer to me after combining ideas from Game Theory and the book "The Dictator's Handbook" which I first heard about from a CGP Grey video. Politics is definitely an area of the world where I feel the ideas people grew up with and the ferocity with which they hold these ideas without suffcient regard for the information they have seen throughout their lives. Because of this, I have always held that my current views on politics were probably not complete due to a lack of clear, unbaised information to base my views off of. I take to the quote that CGP Grey said that (to loosely paraphrase) "Opinions are something I keep in a box. And when I find one I like better, I replace the one I had before." This works really well in parts of life where accurate information can be found easily. You can iterate over your opinions as you search and explore to hopefully have some pretty good ones pretty quick, but without abundant information, I find my opinions on politics evovle much more slowly as I sort through everything I see to try and unbaisedly assign relative certainty to different pieces of information I find. An intersting problem I am still trying to solve.

Thanksgiving was exciting as I missed my first train while sitting in South Station way before it was going to depart, got a new train for an hour later, realized I forgot my laptop, tried to ask my friends to bring it to me in South Station since there wasn't enough time for me to go back for it, and then got to contemplate a programming assignment in my head for the 2 hour train ride. Throughout all of the themes of writing good specs, testing, and implementing code in that order, I find it funny that so little emphasis has been put on diseccting the actual problem statement and finding out exactly what you're trying to solve. So often there is a clear overall message for what to do, but in the details, the conflicting details, holes, and vagueness, combine to make it really easy to think you know what specs and code need to be written. But as you dig deeper and starting writing out code, you might make a few versions and iterate until you discover all the little gems that make the implementation a little more complicated than you anticpated. Since it seems that the Agile style of project management is very popular in the software development world as I understand it, I defintely wonder if spending more time analysing specs from a coding perspective before breaking out a task into Trello cards would be worth the time over iterating over solutions immedaitely. Obviously, there is huge benefit to iterating, but I am wondering where exactly on the spectrum the maximum effciency lies for different types of teams and projects.

But the train ride ended, and I arrived for Thanksgiving to the sight of the turkey being prepared a day early! I had been invited to a hackathon in Finland that required me to fly out of Boston on Thanksgiving day afternoon so shout out to my relatives for moving it a day early so we could be together for Thanksgiving <3 (also, Hi Grandma! Let me know how well you've been able to read the blog lately :) ).

Thanksgiving was a blast except for the coding problem set I had to finish on my cousin's laptop, but that's done, I made it back to Boston, and I'm currently on the plane to Finland for the hackathon. Doing a hackathon for the first time without any schoolwork due in the near future and a clear mind is going to be a good expeirience.